---
title: The Team You Need
subtitle: World is less intimidating
author: Swarnima Anand
avatar: img/authors/wferr.png
image: img/preview1.jpeg
date: '2020-08-13'
published: true
---
> 


The primary goal of i-Help may be to help young school students become the best versions of themselves, but in reality, it does so much more. It helps the volunteers too. Going on visits opens up a new world to me.  They say that in the service of others, you can find yourself. This statement resonates with me every time I am around these precious little kids.

Sometimes being a college student gets too much, The academic rigour, the all-nighters, and just constantly having things to do and places to get the best of all of us. That was precisely how it was for me, in the middle of term II. To take a break from the stress and academic pressure, I volunteered to help out at the i-Help Sports Day. And now, I can honestly say that it was one of the best days of my time here at IPM.

Seeing the kids in their natural element is supremely heartwarming. They have so much joy in their hearts just from playing simple games with their friends. I remember one incident in particular from that day. After running around and playing with children all morning, a fellow volunteer took charge so that I could get some rest. He had organized the children in a team for group activities and called them Team Tiger. While I was sitting in the middle of the field and basking in the sun, a small group of young boys from the group came to me and said, _**“We want to make a team with YOU. What do you want to call it?”**_

My heart filled with warmth. These young boys, who had only known me for a couple of hours, made me feel like I was not alone. Like I had become an integral part of their playgroup. Children are a gift of nature, and they should be cherished and treasure as much as possible. Their gesture was modest yet overwhelming at the same time, for someone like me, who more than often felt like an outsider in social situations, it meant more that it seems on the surface. Even if it was for a couple of minutes, I finally felt like I belonged…
