---
published: true
---
"> Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world."
~ Nelson Mandela

It has been almost two years when I first signed up for i-Help after coming to IIM Indore. My mother was the main reason I decided to join this organization. She is a government schoolteacher and has been teaching since 1995. As a kid, I used to accompany my mother to her school because she wanted me to understand the hardships that underprivileged children face in terms of quality and availability of education, especially. Seeing all that, I believe, had a powerful impact on my social responsibility as a citizen endowed with privileges. Therefore, i-Help will forever hold a special place in my heart.
I have realized from my teaching experience so far that conventional methods of teaching will not be 100% efficient in tackling the issues we see today. These issues are but not limited to, high dropout rates, performance below par, addictions. I have mostly taught in classes 2nd and 3rd grade, and I believe if we start imparting these social values as early as possible, we will see a significant positive change in the current scenario plagued with such issues. Additionally, we need to shift from the orthodox pedagogy to have a more substantial impact on the students. This is important because education is not just about gaining knowledge to be successful in life. Still, it has deeper nuances which moulds how a person will have a positive effect on this world. 
In my journey so far, I have always tried to think outside the preconceived notion of what a classroom means to students. Usually, towards the end, I try to interact with them personally and share stories about our lives, our hobbies, and our family. On some days, I teach them how to draw commonly used household items and try to connect them with what they have learned on that day. Occasionally, I show them short films dealing with social issues in our society and discuss what course of action they should take in case such things happen. Although we have the Right to Education, there are still innumerable kids who do not have access to quality education. That is where i-Help plays a vital part in contributing to society by providing education to the underprivileged section of Indore.
