---
published: true
author: Anonymous
image: img/Anonymous.jpg
date: '2020-09-24'
---
	Childhood friendships usually end up following one of two paths. Either the friendship is an enduring one that stands the test of time or the two playmates simply grow apart over the course of adolescence. Friendship to me became more of a chore with every new address once every 2 years. Friendship became seasonal and at the end of every season, I had to sow a seed of friendship at another place with another person. Friendship became unrewarding with every friend I left behind over the years. The beginning and end of each friendship streaked from misguided faith in the phrase “History repeats itself.” I knew all my friendships would end even before they started making me numb towards the nostalgia of childhood memories with my pals. The emotions of friendship occupied a very blurry corner of my heart. They were neither real nor fake. I couldn’t tell which it was. I remember my so-called friends not through shared moments but through class photos. 


	My whole experience at i-help elucidated the importance of treasuring every little laugh, squeak, tease, cry, yell, hoot felt together as friends. The friendships of these extraordinary kids in the classroom made me realize I never tasted the sweet fruits of the glories of childhood. These children gave me the power to reset and kill my fermenting feelings of hopelessness towards friendship. Every visit of i-help gives me a jolt of positivity and hope to foster better and more intimate connections with the people around me. These kids have taught me something that no other person in the world could have; to live in the moment. Learning with friends makes learning fun, living in the moment with friends making living worthwhile. I have missed a part of childhood that I can never get back. But I am not going to miss the memories and moments to come with my beloved friends. Yeah, it’s cool that I teach them Math and English, but they taught me about the importance of friendship and restored my faith in it.
