---
published: false
author: Nivedita Arjun
avatar: img/authors/rsz_1img_20200813_17461.jpg
image: img/Previ1.JPG
date: '2020-08-13'
twitter: www.google.com
insta: 'https://instagram.com/swarnima.anand?igshi'
---
Perhaps it’s because I’ve always been fond of kids that I have looked forward to all iHelp visits with great anticipation. Well, I have to give up on a few extras’ hours of sleep on a free Thursday, but I can live with that. I’ve made a handful of visits up until now and I’ve thoroughly enjoyed every one of them. Until my last visit, if someone had asked me to pick a favourite, I would have brushed the question away with a diplomatic answer. But my last visit changed my mind.
My friend and I were allotted an eighth-grade girls’ class. Rumour has it that these girls are the naughtiest of the lot. It only took a few minutes in the class before we realized that it was not a rumour, after all. Don’t get me wrong, they were not the kind who’d set off a firecracker under the teacher’s table. When I say “naughty”, I simply mean they were a little more than we were used to handling. Now, if they were all the same kind of naughty, we might have hoped that one strait-jacket solution would put them all in place at one go. But of course, they wouldn’t want to make things that easy for us. Each of those girls contributed their own flavour to the naughtiness that was sizzling hot in that class. 

There was one girl – clearly the brightest of the lot – who was so enthusiastic to learn something new, that after a point it seemed as if she was sucking away our enthusiasm in order to keep up her effervescent demeanour. And she had to display her excitement at the most high-pitched of tones that was starting give us a headache. By the end of the class, she decided that she’d had enough to learn and was hell-bent on getting us to dance and sing. Then there were these two other girls who were determinedly chewing away at their pieces of gum almost as if their life depended on draining the last bit of juice from it. Of course, they threw it away when I told them how inappropriate it was for a classroom but I’d only be fooling myself to believe that that was the last time they would be chewing gum in class. For some bizarre reason, most of these girls just had to leave for the washroom in pairs. I still don’t know why they looked so disappointed when they were only let out individually but I do want to find out, someday, the story behind these visits-in-pairs. And of course, in every class there will be those few children who refuse to part their lips as if they are afraid of some forbidden secret escaping their lips. And most insulting of all, they kept picking at my Hindi! I know that the language isn’t one of my strong points, but did they really have to point fingers and laugh at me?!

My friend and I taught and tried to maintain discipline till our throats were dry. It was very hard for me to hear my own voice over the clamour they were making. We watched the clock needle moving slowly; totally unempathetic to the pain we were enduring. Finally, when it was time to leave, we scrambled to pack our bags. Just as I thought I was done for the day, I found myself swarmed by all the girls. I couldn’t even see my own feet! They were all screaming and holding out pens to me. My friend who had managed to escape stood at the doorway and mused that they wanted me to sign their hands. So, I set out drawing smileys and stars on their hands. And if one line was out of place, they’d be back for me to perfect it. Finally, when all the madness was over, the overenthusiastic girl (who by then we had decided deserved an award for being the naughtiest in class) came to me and with a look of pure innocence on her face said, “_**Didi, mujhe lagta hai ki humne apko bohot pareshan kiya. Sorry didi.**”_ That was it. The she ran off to God-knows-where to cause more trouble I’m sure. But that one line that she told me melted away all the weariness that I had felt from before. And I looked back at the events from the classroom in a new light. Now, signing their hands didn’t seem as drudgerous as it did before; in fact, I felt like a celebrity that they looked up to. And I realized then that the time when they were in that class was perhaps the happiest hours of their day – no matter whether they were studying or talking or chewing gum – it was their time. All it took was one _**“sorry”**_ for what I thought was one of the most tiring visits to turn into my favourite visit.
