---
published: false
---
I was playing Badminton well into the night and went to bed around 3 30 in the morning. I had forgotten about my i-Help visit the next day and slept. It was then at 9 in the morning my roommate reminded me of the visit as he was coming as well. I got ready and rushed to the Cricket Stadium with my roommate.

I didn’t want to go for the visit. One major reason was I didn’t know Hindi then, not that I know now too but still I didn’t want to make a fool of myself in front of those little kids. My partner assured me that it would be fine and that he will handle it. I was supposed to take Math and English for Class 4 students. I read the modules that I have to teach on the way to the school and also downloaded Google Translate in case I needed it. We reached there when the students were assembled for their morning prayer. We waiting for a few minutes until they went back to their classes. My partner and I decided that he will be teaching orally and I will be assisting him by writing on the board when he wants me to. 

We decided to start with Multiplication. I would write on the board as my partner explained it to them in Hindi. Seems like they already knew the basics and so we decided to give them problem questions. Easy ones. Some were so fast in solving them that we had to give multiple questions to them at once before we could attend others who were slow. We then explained the problems on the board for the ones who couldn’t get it. Then we gave some more problems for them to make sure that they got the concept. It was really fun doing those Math problems with those little kids. It was English then. I opened the app and starting typing in words for the translation. It was either that I was too slow or they were too fast, I was not able to cope up with typing and reading and then telling it out loud. We went back to the same arrangement as we had for Math. My partner would ask me to write a book on the board, I would look up the Hindi word for ‘Book’ from the app, and then I would write the word ‘किताब’ on the board. It was fun trying to keep up with my partner and the kids. I learned a lot of Hindi words that day and earned a whole lot of respect for Google Translate. 


Then we took photos with the kids. Then we said bye and came back to the campus. As I said, I didn’t want to go at first but then I enjoyed the visit. The kids laughed with me rather than at me for my inability to speak Hindi and that is the reason why I’ll go back the next chance I get. 
