---
title: Impact of Technology in Education
date: 2022-11-15 00:00:00 Z
subtitle: 
author:
- Ritender S R
avatar: img/authors/Ritender.JPG
image: img/Blog4_Cover.jpg
twitter: www.ihelpiimi.org
insta: https://www.instagram.com/ihelpiimi
---

There have been days when education was only limited to a few elites. Those days, only those students who were well off were able to afford home-schooling. A few others were to travel long distances to get access to schools/schooling. Soon came the era of computers, which was optimized to build affordable technology to make everyone avail the facilities of the same. With the beginning of the smart classrooms in 1985 at San Diego State University, the aim of innovative digital classrooms equipped with smartboards, and projectors, to provide students with an interactive learning experience was fulfilled. Soon this was brought into schools and received tremendous response from the students regarding their enthusiasm and interest in attending schools. As the internet was also evolving at this stage, the ability to access the internet through smartphones was primarily focused. This slowly appeared as mobile networks proliferated from the first generation to the fifth generation. The impact it had in terms of education is enormous. From the vast amount of resources in terms of e-books that are free of cost to the recently developed audiobooks, the accessibility of education to students has increased manifold. This reduced the dependence on physical materials to learn something and induced the concept of self-study among students. The recent developments in E-Library are a cherry on top of the technological advancements in the field of education. Gone are the days when schools declared holidays due to unavoidable circumstances like bad weather, while now we have 'online classes' close to how learning happens in the presence of physical classrooms. People used to walk and travel long distances to coaching institutes to prepare for competitive exams. We now have several E-learning platforms with Learning Management Systems for the same, easing the process of competitive exams preparation and drastically increasing the number of students appearing for the same every year. The impact of technology in the future of education will encompass the power of AI incorporated into the learning tools to provide performance reports to the students to get their SWOT analysis and recommend measures to enhance their learning process. Thus, there is no doubt that the field of education has a vast potential to grow with the support of emerging technologies.
